---
title: Update
author: Tim McGilchrist
date: 2009-06-30 00:00
tags: Misc
description: Update 2009
---

Since I haven't posted anything here for a while. I wanted to give a quick
update on what's going on.

My new **Unibody MacBookPro** is brilliant. I just missed out on
the latest update with the inbuilt battery, but I don't feel I have missed out
on much. I wouldn't use the SD reader but the extra battery life would be very
nice. Either way I'm happy, I have more power than I need and it's a beautiful
piece of engineering. Mmm.

Since finishing off University for the semester I've really gotten into
Objective-C / Cocoa programming for the Mac, and maybe the iPhone. I grabbed
**Cocoa Programming for Mac OSX** which seems to be the standard
book on the subject. So far I really like the book, it's a bit different in that
you really cannot just sit down and read through it, instead you need a Mac
handy and a spare hour or so to get hands on with the material. On reflection
this is the natural format for someone like Aaron Hillegass, who runs training
courses on this stuff. My approach so far has been to read a chapter or so on
the train in the morning and work through the exercises in the evening. I'm
making pretty good progress and I can really see why people get excited about
Cocoa UI development, you can get a lot working with very little code. I'm maybe
a third of the way through the book and given my pace I'll be finished within 2
weeks.

Alongside the Cocoa book, I've started downloading the **iPhone Application
Programming Videos** from Stanford, via
[iTunes](http://deimos3.apple.com/WebObjects/Core.woa/Browse/itunes.stanford.edu.2024353965.02024353968). The
contrast with the heavy hands on approach of Hillegass is nice, meaning I can
sit back and take things in slowly.

Maybe I'll become an Objective-C hacker?
